SMQTK v0.2 Release Notes
========================

This is a minor release if SMQTK that provides both new functionality and
fixes over the previous version v0.1.

The highlights of this release are new and updated interface classes, an
updated plugin system, new HBase and PostgreSQL DataElement implementations,
and a new wrapper for Caffe CNN descriptor extraction.

Additional one-off scripts were added for reference as well as a more
generally usable utility for listing out available plugins for the running
system and environment.

Additional notes about the release are provided below.


Updates / New Features since v0.1
---------------------------------

General

  * Added ``SmqtkObject``, ``SmqtkAlgorithm`` and ``SmqtkRepresentation``
    interfaces for high level classification of sub-classes and encapsulation
    if high level general functionality (like logging).

  * Removed GENIE and MASIR archive directories. There is a tag for the last
    hash where they were present in this repository. Not removed from history
    so cloning the SMQTK repo is still large.

  * Removed geospace web application sub-module (moved elsewhere).

Documentation

  * Update documentaiton to reStructured text files and added support for
    building Sphinx documentation pages.

Plugins

  * Added ``Pluggable`` interface, intended for abstract classes whose
    implementations are expected to be provided via dynamic plugins, and
    propagated its use within the code base.

  * ``get_plugins`` function now ensures that loaded classes descend from
    ``Pluggable`` and check that they are currently usable.

Data Elements

  * Added HBase backend.

  * Added PostgreSQL backend.

  * Added asynchronous conversion of an iterable of ``DataElement`` instances
    into a numpy matrix. Supports ``multiprocessing`` and ``threading``
    approaches.

Data Sets

  * Added default implementation of ``contains`` method to abstract interface.

  * Separated out original ``DataFileSet`` into separate file-based and
    in-memory implementations.

  * Added file caching of memory-based data sets.

Descriptor Generators

  * Expanded construction parameters for ColorDescriptor implementations so as
    to remove most class-level variables.

  * Added ``CaffeDefaultImageNet`` implementation and support files. This is
    intended to be used with the ``cnn_feature_extractor`` binary optionally
    built with SMQTK.

Nearest Neighbors

  * Removed model FLANN implementation model filepath defaults, allowing
    purely in-memory use without model persistance.

Web Tools

  * Added static file hosting flask blueprint in the IQR demo for serving
    arbitrary directories as a source of static files. Removed need to write
    generated files into source tree in order to host them.

  * Fixed base flask app interface to be ``Pluggable``.

Python Utilities

  * Shifted some functions around into locations where it makes more sense for
    them to live

    * ``smqtk.utils.safe_create_dir`` -> ``smqtk.utils.file_utils.safe_create_dir``

    * ``smqtk.utils.touch`` -> ``smqtk.utils.file_utils.touch``

Tools / Scripts

  * Added plugin summarization script for listing names and description of
    currently available plugins for the various SMQTK interfaces.

  * Changed IQR model generation example script to use the same configuration
    file that would be passed to the IQR web app (simplification).

  * Added machine specific ITQ code generation scripts


Fixes since v0.1
----------------

IQR web application demo

  * Fixed preview cache to clean up after itself.

Code Index

  * Fixed the way ``MemoryCodeIndex`` updated descriptor count so as not to
    count descriptor overwrites as new descriptors.

Descriptor Generators

  * Fixed ColorDescriptor implementation use of ``pyflann.FLANN.nn_index``
    when the distance method is "hik" (inverted results order and distance
    values).

  * Fixed ColorDescriptor ``is_usable`` check to catch stdout/stderr output.

Nearest Neighbors

  * Fixed issue with FLANN implementation where containing directories for
    output files were not being created first.

Relevancy Index

  * Fixed bug in ``LibSvmHikRelevancyIndex`` where negative distance values
    would cause an error.

IQR Utils

  * Fixed incorrect default ``RelevancyIndex`` configuration.

Tests

  * Fixed tests due to DataSet implementation split

Tools / Scripts

  * Fixed various bugs in compute scripts

Miscellaneous

  * Removed various unnecessary print statements originally for debugging.

  * Removed redundant uses of metaclass declarations.
