SMQTK v0.4.0 Release Notes
==========================
This is a minor release that provides various minor updates and fixes as well
as a few new command-line tools and a new web service application.

Among the new tools include a couple classifier validation scripts for
checking the performance of a classification algorithm fundamentally as well
as against a specific test set.

A few MEMEX program specific scripts have been added in a separated directory,
defining an ingestion process from an ElasticSearch instance through
descritpor and hash code computation.

Finally, a new web service has been added that exposes the IQR process for
external tools. The existing IQR demo web application still functions as it
did before, but does not yet use this service under the hood.


Updates / New Features since v0.3.0
-----------------------------------

Classifiers

  * Updated supervised classifier interface to no assume presence of a
    "negative" class.

  * Fixed libSVM implementation train method to not assume "negative" class.

Compute Functions

  * Refactored ``compute_many_descriptors.py`` main work function into a new
    sub-module of SMQTK in in order to allow higher level compute function to
    be accessible from the SMQTK module API.

  * Added function for asynchronously computing LSH codes for some number of
    input descriptor elements.

Descriptor Index

  * Update to postgresql backend to lazy-connect during batch executions,
    preventing a connection from being made if nothing is being added.

Documentation

  * Added ``CONTRIBUTING.md`` file.

  * Added example of setting up a NearestNeighborServiceServer with live-reload
    enabled and how to add/process incremental ingests.

IQR

  * Revised IqrSession class for generalized use (pruned down attributes to
    what is needed). Fixed IqrSearchApp due to changes.

Tools / Scripts

  * Added CLI script for hash code generation and output to file. This script
    is primarily for support of LSHNearestNeighborIndex live-reload
    functionality.

  * Added script for asynchronously computing classifications on descriptors
    in an index via a list of descriptor UUIDs.

  * Added script for cross validating a classifier configuration for some
    truthed descriptors within an index. Can generate PR and ROC curves.

  * Added some MEMEX specific scripts for processing and updating data from a
    known Solr index source.

  * Added MEMEX-specific script for fetching image data from an ElasticSearch
    instance and transfering it locally.

  * Added script for validating a classifier implementation with a model
    against a labeled set of descriptors. This script can also be used to
    conveniently train a classifier if it is a supervised classifier type.

Utilities

  * Added helper wrapper for generalized asynchronous function mapping to an
    input stream.

  * Added helper function for loop progress reporting and timing.

  * Added helper function for JSON configuration loading.

  * Added helper for utilities, encapsulating standard argument parser and
    configuration loading/generation steps.

  * Renamed "merge_config" to "merge_dict" and moved it to the smqtk.utils
    module level.

Web

  * Added IQR mostly-RESTful service application. Comes with companion text
    file outlining web API.


Fixes since v0.3.0
------------------

ClassificationElement

  * Fixed memory implementation serialization bug.

HashIndex

  * Fixed SkLearnBallTreeHashIndex model load/save functions to not use pickle
    due to save size issues. Now uses ``numpy.savez`` instead, providing better
    serialization and run time.
