SMQTK v0.7.0 Release Notes
==========================


Updates / New Features since v0.6.2
-----------------------------------

Algorithms

  Descriptor Generators

    * Added KWCNN DescriptorGenerator plugin

Build System

  * Added ``setup.py`` script in support of installation by ``pip``. Updated
    CMake code to install python components via this scripts.

  * Added ``SMQTK_BUILD_FLANN`` and ``SMQTK_BUILD_LIBSVM`` to CMake for
    optionally building libSVM and Flann (both default ON).

Classifier Interface

  * Added default ``ClassificationElementFactory`` that uses the in-memory
    back-end.

Compute Functions

  * Added minibatch kmeans based descriptor clustering function with CLI
    interface.

Descriptor Elements

  * Revised implementation of in-memory representation, doing away with
    global cache.

  * Added optimization to Postgres backend for a slightly faster ``has_vector``
    implementation.

Descriptor Generator

  * Removed lingering assumption of ``pyflann`` module presence in
    ``colordescriptor.py``.

Devops::Ansible

  * Added initial Ansible roles for SMQTK and Caffe dependency.

Devops::Docker

  * Revised default IQR service configuration file to take into account
    recently added session expiration support. Defaults were used before,
    but now it needs to be specifically enabled as by default expiration is
    not enabled.

  * Added IQR / playground docker container setup. Includes:
    - CPU + NVIDIA GPU capable docker file.
    - Optional input image tiling.
    - Optional startup of RESTfule NN and IQR services.

Documentation

  * Updated build and installation documentation.

  * Added missing utility script documentation hooks.

  * Standardized utility script definition of argument parser generation
    function for documentation use.

Girder

  * Added initial simple Girder plugin to link to an external IQR webapp
    instance.

Misc.

  * Added algo/rep/iqr imports to top level ``__init__.py`` to make basic
    functionality available without special imports.

Representation

  Data Elements

    * Added plugin for Girder-hosted data elements

    * Added ``from_uri`` member function as well as global function to handle
      instance construction or selection via URI string specification.

    * Postgres data element will now automatically create its configured table
      if it doesn't exist and authentication and sufficient privileges.

  Descriptor Element

    * Postgres descriptor element will now automatically create its configured
      table if it doesn't exist and authentication and sufficient privileges.

  Descriptor Index

    * Postgres descriptor index will now automatically create its configured
      table if it doesn't exist and authentication and sufficient privileges.

Scripts

  * Add script to conveniently make Ball-tree hash index model given an
    existing ``hash2uuids.pickle`` model file required for the
    ``LSHNearestNeighborsIndex`` implementation.

  * ``compute_many_descriptor.py`` batch size parameter now defaulted to 0
    instead of 256.

  * Add script to cluster an index of descriptors via mini-batch kmeans
    (scikit-learn).

  * Added script wraping the use of the minibatch kmeans descriptor clustering
    function.

  * Added scripts and notebooks for retrieving Memex-specific data from
    Elasticsearch.

  * Moved-command line scripts to the `smqtk.bin` sub-module in order to use
    ``setuptool`` support for cross-platform executable generation.

  * ``classifier_kfold_validation`` utility now only uses
    MemoryClassificationElement instead of letting it be configurable.

  * Added script for finding nearest neighbors of a set of UUIDs given a
    nearest neighbors index.

  * Added script to add GirderDataElements to a data set

Utilities

  * Started a module containing URL-base utility functions, initially adding a
    url-join function similar in capability to ``os.path.join``.

  * Added fixed tile cropping to image transform tool.

  * Added utility functions to detect mimetypes of files via ``file-magic`` or
    ``tika`` optional dependencies.

Web

  * Updated/Rearchitected IqrSearchApp (now IqrSearchDispatcher) to be able to
    spawn multiple IQR configurations during runtime in addition to any
    configured in the input configuration JSON file.  This allows external
    applications to manage configuration storage and generation.

  * Added directory for Girder plugins and added an initial one that, given
    a folder with the correct metadata attached, can initialize an IQR
    instance based on that configuration, and then link to IQR web interface
    (uses existing/updated IqrSearch webapp).

  * Added ability to automatically login via a valid Girder token and parent
    Girder URL for token/user verification. This primarilly allows restricted
    external IQR instance creation and automatic login from Girder redirects.

  * Mongo session information block at bottom IQR app page now only shows up
    when running server in debug mode.

  * Added document showing complete use case with IQR RESTful webservice using
    the IQR docker image with LEEDS Butterfly data. Includes expected results
    users should be able to replicate.


Fixes since v0.6.2
------------------

Documentation

  * Fixed issues caused by moving scripts out of `./bin/` to
    `./python/smqtk/bin`.

Scripts

  * Fix logging bug in `compute_many_descriptors.py` when file path has unicode
    in it.

  * Removed final loop progress report from `compute_many_descriptors.py` as it
    did not report valid statistics.

  * Fixed deprecated import of ``flask-basicauth`` module.

  * Fixed DescriptorFileElement cache-file save location directory when
    configured to use subdirectories. Now no longer creates directories to
    store only a single file. Previous file-element roots are not compatible
    with this change and need to be re-ingested.
    
  * Fixed IQR web app url prefix check

Metrics

  * Fixed cosine distance function to return angular distance.

Utilities

  * ``SmqtkObject`` logger class accessor name changed to not conflict with
    ``flask.Flask`` logger instance attribute.

Web

  * Fixed Flow upload browse button to not only allow directory selection
    on Chrome.
