SMQTK v0.8.0 Release Notes
===========================

This minor release represents the merger of a public release that added a
Girder-based implementation of the DataElement interface.  We also optimized the
use of the PostgreSQL DescriptorIndex implementation to use named cursors for
large queries.


Updates / New Features since v0.7.0
-----------------------------------

Data Structures

* Revise `GirderDataElement` to use `girder_client` python module and added the
  the use of girder authentication token values in lieu of username/password
  for communication authorization.

* Add the optional use of named cursors in PostgreSQL implementation of the
  `DescriptorIndex` interface.  Assists with large selects such that the server
  only sends batches of results at a time instead of the whole result pool.

* Added PostgreSQL implementation of the KeyValueStore interface.

Girder

* Initial SMQTK Girder plugin to support image descriptor processing via
  girder-worker.

* Initial SMQTK Girder plugin implementing a resource and UI for SMQTK nearest
  neighbors and IQR.


Fixes since v0.7.0
------------------

Data Structures

* Added locking to PostgreSQL `DescriptorElement` table creation to fix race
  condition when multiple elements tried to create the same table at the same
  time.

* Fix unconditional import of optional `girder_client` dependency.

Dependencies

* Pinned Pillow version requirement to 4.0.0 due to a large-image conversion
  issue that appeared in 4.1.x.  This issue may have been resolved in newer
  versions of Pillow.

Scripts

* Various fixes to IQR model generation process due to changes made to
  algorithm input parameters (i.e. taking `DataElement` instances instead of
  filepaths).

* Fixes `build_iqr_models.sh` to follow symlinks when compiling input image
  file list.

Tests

* Fix missing abstract function override in KeyValueStore test stub.

* Fix test girder_client.HttpError import issue.
